<!-- line break -->
___
>## False Hydra
>*Small aberration, neutral evil*
>___
>- **Armor Class** 16 (natural armor)
>- **Hit Points** 32 (5d6 + 15)
>- **Speed** 25 ft., burrow 25 ft.
>___
>|STR|DEX|CON|INT|WIS|CHA|
>|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
>|16 (+3)|14 (+2)|16 (+3)|12 (+1)|20 (+5)|8 (-1)|
>___
>- **Skills** Perception +8
>- **Damage Resistances** psychic
>- **Condition Immunities** petrified
>- **Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 18
>- **Languages** Any language known by a creature it has consumed
>- **Challenge** 8 (3,900 XP)
>- **Proficiency Bonus** +3
>___
>***Multiple Heads.*** The false hydra begins its life with one head, however, as it consumes more humanoid creatures the number of heads increases and it grows larger. Everytime the false hydra grows a new head its maximum Hit Points are increased by 30. The number of creatures the false hydra must consume in order to grow another head also increases with each head that it grows. Consult the table below to determine how many humanoids the false hydra must consume to grow another head. If it grows 7 heads, the false hydra transforms into a Mature False Hydra after taking a long rest. While it has more than one head, the hydra has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.
>
>| Creatures Consumed | Number of Heads | False Hydra Size |
>|:---|:---|:---|
>| 0 creatures consumed | 1 head | Small |
>| 3 creatures consumed | 2 heads | Medium |
>| 8 creatures consumed | 3 heads | Medium |
>| 18 creatures consumed | 4 heads | Large |
>| 35 creatures consumed | 5 heads | Large |
>| 70 creatures consumed | 6 heads | Huge |
>| 120 creatures consumed | 7 heads | Huge |
>
>***Neck Stalks.*** The false hydra’s heads extend a long distance from its body. Whenever a head attacks a creature more than 15 ft. away from the body, the head provokes an attack of opportunity.
>
>***Reactive Heads.*** For each head the false hydra has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks.
>
>### Actions
>***Bite.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 30 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage and the target is grappled.
>
>***Discordant Song.*** The false hydra sings a discordant song. All creatures that can hear within 5 miles are charmed by the false hydra until the song ends. While charmed by the false hydra, a target can not see or hear the false hydra and all memories of its presence are suppressed as if the false hydra had never existed. Any resulting gaps in logic are confabulated by the target in order to preserve a logically consistent state of affairs. For example, if someone known to the target is killed by the false hydra, the target may believe that their deceased acquaintance has merely gone on a journey somewhere far away. During a long rest, a charmed creature makes a DC 20 Wisdom saving throw. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, their subconscious mind will  reach out to them in an attempt to warn them of the false hydra’s presence, possibly in the form of a note scrawled as they slept or by some other means at the DM’s discretion. The false hydra must take a bonus action on its subsequent turns to continue singing. It can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the false hydra makes a bite attack.
<!-- line break -->
___
>## Mature False Hydra
>*Gargantuan aberration, neutral evil*
>___
>- **Armor Class** 20 (natural armor)
>- **Hit Points** 214 (12d20 + 78)
>- **Speed** 5 ft., burrow 5 ft.
>___
>|STR|DEX|CON|INT|WIS|CHA|
>|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
>|30 (+10)|14 (+2)|22 (+6)|12 (+1)|28 (+9)|6 (-2)|
>___
>- **Skills** Perception +14
>- **Damage Resistances** psychic
>- **Condition Immunities** petrified
>- **Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 24
>- **Languages** Any language known by a creature it has consumed
>- **Challenge** 16 (3,900 XP)
>- **Proficiency Bonus** +5
>___
>***Death Throes (Mythic Trait; Recharges after a Short or Long Rest).*** When the false hydra is reduced to 0 hit points, it doesn’t die or fall unconscious immediately. Instead, it regains 214 hit points, then begins to wail and thrash about. It can no longer use its domination dirge. 24 hours after this trait becomes active, the false hydra dies.
>
>***Legendary Resistance (3/Day).*** If the false hydra fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
>
>***Multiple Heads.*** The false hydra has seven heads. Whenever the false hydra takes a long rest, if it ate enough to gain proper sustenance during the day, it grows an additional head. While it has more than one head, the hydra has advantage on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.
>
>***Neck Stalks.*** The false hydra’s heads extend a long distance from its body. Whenever a head attacks a creature more than 15 ft. away from the body, the head provokes an attack of opportunity.
>
>***Reactive Heads.*** For each head the false hydra has beyond one, it gets an extra reaction that can be used only for opportunity attacks.
>
>***Siege Monster.*** The false hydra deals double damage to objects and structures.
>
>### Actions
>***Multiattack.*** The false hydra makes any combination of bite or swallow attacks as it has heads.
>
>***Bite.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 120 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (1d10 + 10) piercing damage and the target is grappled.
>
>***Swallow.*** The false hydra makes one bite attack against a large or smaller creature it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target takes the bite's damage, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the false hydra, and it takes 35 (10d6) acid damage at the start of each of the false hydra’s turns. If a creature dies while inside the false hydra, the false hydra regains 4d6 hit points. If the false hydra takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the false hydra must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the false hydra. If the false hydra dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 30 feet of movement, exiting prone.
>
>***Domination Dirge.*** The false hydra sings a howling dirge. All creatures that can hear within 5 miles must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by the false hydra until the song ends. While charmed in this way, a creature has a telepathic link with the false hydra. The false hydra can use this telepathic link to issue commands to the creature while the false hydra is conscious (no action required), which the target does its best to obey. The false hydra can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “attack that creature,” “run over there,” or “fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from the false hydra, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.
The false hydra must take a bonus action on its subsequent turns to continue singing. It can stop singing at any time. The song ends if the false hydra makes a bite attack with all of its heads.
>
>### Legendary Actions
>The false hydra can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. It can take only one legendary action at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The false hydra regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.
>
>***Hateful Bellow.***The false hydra unleashes a piercing cry. All creatures within 5 miles that can hear must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed until the end of their next turn.
>
>***Voracious Consumption (Costs 2 Actions).*** The false hydra makes as many bite attacks as it has heads. Any creature that is large or smaller hit by one of these attacks is also swallowed.
<!-- line break -->